---
layout:   post
title:    Chrome Fixes Too Many Errors
category: Code
---

p. As a web developer, I need to see errors. Also, as a web developer, I need to be fast. These two requirements have caused me to jump from browser to browser like a madman. Firefox has the best debugging tools, but is too fat. Safari is super sleek, pretty fast, but I hate having to tab through tabs, or _gasp_ reach for my mouse. I thought Chrome was getting there. It’s super fast, has some decent debugging tools, and seems to be gaining ground.

p. Unfortunately, I have an issue with Chrome that I am not sure I can get past. It auto-fixes too much. What I mean by that is that it takes my mistakes, which could be formatting errors, syntax errors, etc., and fixes them for me. Sounds great; except for one problem. Users that are using other browsers happen to see what I missed. Sure, I check in different browsers, but I don’t always have the time to check a browser for a simple change. If I screwed something up, I need to see that it is broken. Don’t fix it for me.

p. Okay, a few examples. Encoding issues seem to be auto-fixed in Chrome. I had some markup that wasn’t properly replaced with HTML entities and Chrome fixed them before displaying them. This is an awesome feature for an everyday user, not so great for a web developer. Another example: working on a page with a very large form that displays additional elements as needed. I had to make a quick change. Chrome showed the new change beautifully. Firefox/Safari showed the wreck that an error left behind.

p. Sorry Chrome, I would rather develop in a browser that allows me to see what is really happening. Maybe a “Developer mode” would allow a developer to see a page as it renders.
